you know what a laparotomy is you don't
come join me I'm going to share with you
exactly what a laparotomy is hi i'm
gerry oginski i'm a new york medical
malpractice and personal injury trial
attorney practicing law here in the
state of new york
a laparotomy means that a surgeon is
going in and surgically removing
something inside of you
whether that's cancerous tissue whether
it's an organ that's not working
properly that's what a laparotomy means
sometimes they're known as diagnostic
laparotomies where the doctors going in
to find out what's going on other times
they know definitively beforehand and
now are going in to do a surgical
procedure in order to remove the
affected organ now what is a laparoscopy
a laparoscopy means that the surgeon is
going inside to do the same thing
however they're using different tools a
laparotomy is surgeon will literally
take a knife and cut into your belly and
make a large incision a laparoscopy is a
surgery where the doctor is going to use
fiber-optic tools and cameras and create
puncture holes into the belly and once
they put a puncture hole in one side
then they'll put another one in the
other side this will allow them to
insert surgical instrument in one side
and a camera in the other and now they
can look on a monitor and see exactly
what's going on inside of you that's
known as a laparoscopy again they're
different types of laparoscopy you can
do a diagnostic laparoscopy just to go
in take a look see what's happening
or you can go in and do a surgical
removal of some diseased tissue or an
organ and that can be done the same
exact fashion but using a different
procedure known as the laparoscopy so
that's it for today's question and
answer about what is a laparotomy and
what is laparoscopy and by the way if
you have legal questions would like to
learn more about how lawsuits work in
the state of New York I encourage you to
pick up the phone and call me
this is what I do every single day you
can reach me at